this is going to be a brief video but it
may be important for many of you
and there's a direct link to the
peer-reviewed research in the
description
immediately below this video there has
been a
groundbreaking new study into the nature
of homosexuality this is a landmark
in the progress of science however
like most groundbreaking new studies
it raises more questions than it
answers all right this is not the final
study on this topic this is a study
that's going to open
a whole new avenue of research and
unfortunately
the people who are most adept at
conducting research
are very rarely the people who are
able to communicate it to the public
with or without the megaphone of the
mainstream media
in this case the clearly written
conclusions have managed to get garbled
and misunderstood
in being relayed to the public through
the media so that's why i'm making this
video
to clarify things i heard this story
for the first time from youtuber
dj vlad okay it's had a huge impact on
him he's done a whole series of videos
discussing the implications of this
but the story as he tells it is that
this new research proves
that there is no genetic basis to
homosexuality
he claims that the proof is now that
being gay
is not in your dna that is
180 degrees the opposite
of what this study says what the
research scientists have said in
interviews and i've now seen this short
video clips
and what many of the newspapers are
reporting in headlines
is that there is no single gene
responsible for homosexual that there
isn't one gene
okay the study found
five genes five genes
that are statistically significant
in their relationship to homosexuality
so i'm going to come back to what
statistically significant means what it
may or may not mean here
i would just note the first sentence
of the conclusion is quote
same-sex sexual behavior is
influenced not by one or a few genes
but many okay so the study
is claiming to be the first step
on the road to proving that there
is a genetic basis
for homosexuality they
want to suggest and they're as always
with peer-reviewed
scientific reports they're very careful
in their wording
because they're not allowed to speculate
but they want to suggest
that the five autosomal
loki that they identified
the five genes if you like that they
identified are not
the only genes responsible that's just
what they were able to
identify here they speculate in effect
that there will be
more genes responsible however
in looking into those five i just note
in 2019
most genetic research all that you can
identify is a marker and then you often
don't know that much
about what the genetic marker does and
in some cases the genetic marker may do
nothing
we have genetic code that isn't uh
exhibited in our appearance or how we
live it's just code we carry with us
in our dna however in this case
the five genetic markers that they did
identify as statistically significant
are linked to sex hormone regulation
and olfaction okay so
olfaction has something to do with
the sense of smell right sense of smell
and sex hormones obviously are related
to
uh human sexual behavior now i assume
they probably use the the word olfaction
they might not have wanted to specify
they may not know
precisely what the function of the dna
is in relation to
emitting smell perceiving smell what it
is that
that it does more precisely and
generally in 2019
when you're talking about a specific
gene we know a little bit about
it but it's it's not the case that we
just have a simple checklist for the
function of
of every gene in the gene we know we
know something
um but very often that's why people talk
about genetic markers
we've found that one gene is significant
in relation to a specific
condition like a specific health problem
but that gene probably
impacts 10 other things in the body and
when we may only know
one out of ten that's the way it goes in
2019 okay
um so the claim in the study
is quote the genetic effects that
differentiate
heterosexual from same-sex sexual
behavior
are not the same as those that differ
among non-heterosexuals with
lower versus higher proportions of
same-sex partners
close quote that's about as clear as mud
right it's very difficult to follow what
it's saying there so
they're narrowing down further the
statistical significance of what they
have discovered so far
they're telling you they found five
genetic markers
that are statistically significant when
you're comparing a population
this enormous number of people in this
genetic survey huge huge number of
people in the deeds by a factor of a
hundred to one
this is the largest dna survey of its
kind ever on the subject home sexuality
so the the orders of magnitude here are
huge compared to any earlier study
on the relationship between dna and
sexual behavior of this kind
um but they're narrowing down the claim
about
statistical significance these five
genes
they are statistically significant when
you compare the category of completely
heterosexual people
to the category of people who are in any
way
gay lesbian or bisexual so some of those
bisexual people
it could be a man who's married to a
woman but in his whole life just a
couple of times just once in a while
he's had some kind of same-sex
relationship okay and of course it'll
include also people who have
all their lives completely been devoted
to just
same-sex relationships so there's a
warning here
about the statistical significance what
it means and what it doesn't and this is
again why they're hinting
look we haven't found one gene
and they want to emphasize that they
don't think these five genes
are are final are the end of the story
finding these five genes
it's going to be significant enough that
they can now apply for more funding
and they can do more research and and
move forward with this that will
establish a path to future research
it'll establish a
really strong basis for more research
okay but this is not an open and shut
case
however at this time the science of
sexuality has taken a
huge step forward when i was a kid
the main news about homosexuality was
that the research into hormone levels
proved
nothing people were expecting to find
hormonal differences
for people who were gay versus people
were straight and it came to nothing
like basically it was a dead end in
terms of research then people wanted to
do mri research
on the brain and research on the shape
of the brain stem
and they thought they'd be able to find
structural structural features of the
brain
that uniquely linked to homosexuality
and it came to nothing and if you google
it today there are still
really strongly disagreeing papers on
that there are people who are still
trying to argue that there's some
structural features of the brain
that gay men have and straight men don't
it's
hotly contested but at best you can say
inconclusive within my lifetime so far
that line of research came to nothing
and the genetic studies
as of about 15 years ago the state of
gothu was
they had found nothing by examining
homosexual men themselves lesbian women
themselves but they had managed to find
one suggestion of a marker they managed
to find something
significant when they looked at the dna
of the mothers of homosexual men
and that was the first faint hope that
they'd eventually find
something in the dna that actually
relates to
homosexuality okay so this is
a huge fundamental change
in the way science perceives
homosexuality and
the scientists involved they have wanted
to
tone this down and reassure everyone
they want to avoid rioting they want to
avoid
uh political upheaval okay
but in trying to tone this down and
dilute the significance of this news
unfortunately they've managed to
obfuscate their scientific findings
to such an extent that it's being
reported in the mainstream press some
not all
but it's being reported by some
journalists and it's being
misinterpreted by people like dj vlad
shout out to dj flat it's being
misinterpreted by them
as if the conclusions were the exact
opposite of what they are okay so the
conclusions are
there is not just one piece of dna
there is not just one genetic marker
that tells you the difference between
gay and straight they have found
five so far and they don't
think those five are the whole story
they think if they do further research
they're going to find several more
and then they're going to have to
unravel the way in which those markers
relate with each other so you can
imagine even if there were five
maybe someone who has all five of those
markers
is different than someone who just has
three out of the five maybe there's a
whole range of forms of sexuality or
inclinations
that correspond to the the five uh
strings of dna
we're looking at so far and as they keep
hinting again and again
maybe it is much more complex
than what they have thus far developed
however in 2019
for the first time we're looking at a
genetic basis of homosexuality
whereas in the past we failed to find a
hormonal basis for it
we failed to find a basis in terms of
the structure of the brain
we failed to find a physiological or
simplistic
mechanistic explanation for it people
have been looking
all over the world for some little shred
of evidence like this
and you know what the progress of
science
staggers back and forth it's possible in
the next five years there will be a new
study
that controverts and contradicts these
findings
but right now as of this moment
the indication is that there is a
genetic
basis that people are born straight
or born gay